---
dg-publish: true
description: This article covers Bash shell implementation code and knowledge
---
#[[Projects/Library/000/000\|000]]#IT_Knowledge#[[Projects/Library/000/010/010\|010]]#Develop_Knowledge#[[Projects/Library/000/010/010.10/010.10\|010.10]]#Develop_Programming_Language#[[Projects/Library/000/010/010.10/010.10 a\|010.10 a]]#Linux_stdinput_and_output_with_errorlog






# TL;DR
## 1. In the Linux shell, sometimes we need to view error logs created by commands.
## 2. In Linux, there is a concept of file descriptors, which are represented by numbers for standard error and standard input/output.
## 3. By using this concept, you can capture shell script logs, for example, with `command1 > execute.log 2>&1`.



# Problem
`If you run a Linux command in a different environment and want to know the result, even if it fails.`


while user directly command to terminal , but some times it executed by other environment. for schedule process using cron, or For devops in Pipeline etc... 

usually using by `>` direction, you can get output of command when succeed. But when it failed , you can't get output of command.

especially In devops , use many pipelines. when ever changed pipeline, user changed, authority changed , path chjaged, even network chaned...

so i have to view log even when command is failed
# Solution
`Using file descriptor, you can get error log eighter`
Expression
> `Commnad1 > command1_output.log 2 > &1`

There is concept in Linux that called file desciptor. This means express number some special process input,output , error.


| Number | Descriptor      | Meaning                                                                                                                                             |
| ------ | --------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 0      | Standard Input  | Used for all input operations. It's the default source of input for programs (usually the keyboard). Can be redirected to a file, a pipe, etc.      |
| 1      | Standard Output | Used for the output of programs. By default, it displays output to the terminal, but can be redirected to a file, a pipe, etc.                      |
| 2      | Standard Error  | Used for error messages. By default, error messages are sent to the same place as standard output (the terminal), but can be redirected separately. |


Let's break it down one by one,

first block is that redirect successful output of command 1 to command1_output.log
> `Command1 > command1_output.log

second block is standard error makes to output.
> `2 > &1`
meaning is same `2 > 1` but & is should be attached. because for recognize stdouput to terminal, if didnt attached it, it can be recognized file name 1


# Benefit and Limitation

Benefit is that said first overview. we can get even error log of command when it execute in various environment
Limitation is 2 things
1. If the command itself was never executed, we won't find any traces
2. This must be set for each command and each file for logging.


# References
https://inpa.tistory.com/entry/%EB%A6%AC%EB%88%85%EC%8A%A4-devnull-%EB%A6%AC%EB%8B%A4%EC%9D%B4%EB%A0%89%EC%85%98-%EA%B8%B0%ED%98%B8-%EC%A2%85%EB%A5%98



