---
{"dg-publish":true,"description":"If you go through life and meet someone who casually executes what you think is impossible, you will have the opportunity to live a richer life.","permalink":"/projects/library/900/910/910-00/910-00-b/","dgPassFrontmatter":true,"noteIcon":"0","created":"2024-04-08T09:58:17.164+09:00","updated":"2024-04-19T20:51:19.146+09:00"}
---

#[[Projects/Library/900/900\|900]]#Life_Lessons#[[Projects/Library/900/910/910\|910]]#Self_Discoveries#[[Projects/Library/900/910/910.00/910.00\|910.00]]#Approach_to_Life#[[Projects/Library/900/910/910.00/910.00 b\|910.00 b]]#How_you_can_try_something_you've_given_up_on_as_impossible
# How you can try something you've given up on as impossible
#Human 


## Audience
Anyone who has ever wondered what kind of people would help them get along with people,
Those who want to change the impossible, failed things into successful things.
## Overview
I'm going to share something I realized without realizing it.
As the title suggests, this is one of the ways to succeed at something you thought was impossible and failed.

It's a true story, and the method is pretty simple and easy.
1. find someone who has done something that you thought was impossible or that you failed to do, and they did it effortlessly
2. socialize, get to know, or network with that person.



## Content

What I've realized is that there is a preparation phase and a performance phase. Just like an airplane takes off after flying on the runway for a certain period of time, or a subway starts up for a while before moving, a lot of energy is consumed in the preparation phase.

This is why we often hesitate before we even try something and don't even try it.
To solve this problem, you need to lower this preliminary energy, and the way to do that is to surround yourself with people who make it look easy, like it's a given.

If it's too hard, your self-doubt will be confirmed by saying, "See, there was a reason I didn't try."
But if you find someone who does it like it's no big deal, and you can feel it with all five of your senses, then you can try it, to the point where you'll be a little bit hollowed out and say, "Was that really that easy?"

But the results won't be the same, either because you're not him or her, or because you actually did it and it was harder than you expected.
But what matters is that you did it, and won't your life be richer for having had this almost-didn't-happen experience?
## Conclusion
When we do something, there is a preparation phase, there is an execution phase, and often we get stuck in the preparation phase.
Anything we do can be simple and easy, or something we think is impossible.
You can reduce this preparation phase by simply getting to know people who "do it naturally".
It doesn't always work, and it doesn't always work out, but wouldn't our lives be richer if we did it anyway?





