---
{"dg-publish":true,"description":"This article covers especially basic of 3d domain. Like extension of files, frameworks, etc..","permalink":"/projects/library/800/830/830-00/830-00-a/","dgPassFrontmatter":true,"noteIcon":"0","created":"2024-04-30T09:04:04.413+09:00","updated":"2024-11-19T13:48:15.697+09:00"}
---

#[[Projects/Library/800/800\|800]]#Anythings#[[Projects/Library/800/830/830\|830]]#Hobby#[[Projects/Library/800/830/830.00/830.00\|830.00]]#3D_Works#[[Projects/Library/800/830/830.00/830.00 a\|830.00 a]]#3D_object_domain_knowledge

# 3d obejct frame work
Threestudio  (base) https://github.com/threestudio-project/threestudio
- Mvdream-threestudio (modified) https://github.com/bytedance/MVDream-threestudio
	- Imagedream (more modified) https://github.com/bytedance/ImageDream
> Threesudio
**threestudio is a unified framework for 3D content creation from text prompts, single images, and few-shot images, by lifting 2D text-to-image generation models.**

> Mvdream-threestudio
- **This code is forked from [threestudio](https://github.com/threestudio-project/threestudio) for SDS and 3D Generation using MVDream.**
- **For diffusion model and 2D image generation, check original [MVDream](https://github.com/bytedance/MVDream) repo.**
- MVDream is create multi view images from text
> Imagedream
- ImageDream introduces an image-prompt multi-view diffusion model tailored for 3D object generation. Unlike traditional text-only frameworks, it integrates image features as inputs, enhancing control over the 3D generation process.
# 3d Objects

stl
- Primarily used for 3D printing; contains only the surface geometry of a 3D object.
- Does not include color or texture data; supports binary and ASCII formats.
obj
- Text-based format that includes vertices, texture coordinates, normals, and color.
- Does not support animations; widely used for static 3D models.
fbx 
- Supports complex scenes including 3D models, animations, rigs, and textures.
- Versatile, allowing for interchange between different graphics software


ply
- Stanford Triangle Format, was primarily developed at Stanford University as a flexible way to store 3D data from 3D scanners
- The format is structured to store geometric information such as vertices, faces, and other attributes like colors and normals.
- Can be Alternatives for stl,obj,3ds
gltf
- Structure use JSON. Like a JPEG in 3D
- A full scene description contained in a JSON-formatted .
- glTF file that includes information about the node hierarchy, materials, and camera, as well as descriptor information about the mesh, animation, and other configurations.
- Binary files (.bin) containing geometry and animation data, as well as other buffer-based data.
- Image files for textures (.jpg, .png)
-  Designed to achieve small file sizes, fast loading, full 3D scene representation, and scalability

glb (gltf binary)
- Binary file og gltf for more flexible and high speed 

dae
- A DAE file is a digital asset exchange file format used to exchange data between interactive 3D applications.
- The file format is based on the COLLAborative Design Activity (COLLADA) XML schema, which is an open standard XML schema for exchanging digital assets between graphics software applications. 
splat
- So splat is kind a ply file for more efficient in web and mose important thing is created from 3d gaussian splatting model.


## Unity 3D
[unitypackage](https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/AssetPackages.html)
- FIles project of unity, Like a zip file 
[mesh](https://docs.unity3d.com/2022.1/Documentation/Manual/class-Mesh.html)
- Unity can import .fbx, .dae (Collada), .3ds, .dxf, .obj, and .skp files. These files are useful for:
rigging
- fbx or dae
material
- mat
texture
- png,jpg ...

# Extracting a Texture from a GLB
using blender or web (see video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GqPUEUw9im8&t=14s&ab_channel=Bucket%27sTurds)
The quick way is to use the blender