---
dg-publish: true
---
#Vector #Vector_Operation #[[Projects/Library/Manage/410.00 c\|410.00 c]] #[[Projects/Library/Manage/410.00\|410.00]]

# Linear Combination
Operations that combine the product and addition of scalars to get a new vector


# Linear Independence
Given vectors v1,v2,...,vnv1​,v2​,...,vn​, they are linearly independent if the following equation holds true only when c1=c2=...=cn=0c1​=c2​=...=cn​=0: 
c1v1+c2v2+...+cnvn=0c1​v1​+c2​v2​+...+cn​vn​=0
Here, c1,c2,...,cnc1​,c2​,...,cn​ are scalar coefficients, and 00 represents the zero vector.

# Linearly Dependece
Given vectors v1,v2,...,vnv1​,v2​,...,vn​, they are linearly dependent if there exists a set of scalar coefficients c1,c2,...,cnc1​,c2​,...,cn​, not all zero, such that:
c1v1+c2v2+...+cnvn=0c1​v1​+c2​v2​+...+cn​vn​=0
> Linear dependence means at least one vector in the set can be expressed as a combination of the others.

# Representation of vector space

Subspace
1. **Closure**: The sum and scalar multiples of any vectors in the subspace must also belong to the subspace.
2. **Contains Zero Vector**: The subspace always includes the zero vector.
3. **Operations Follow Vector Space Rules**: All vectors in the subspace must adhere to the rules of vector addition and scalar multiplication.

# Vector Basis
It's a set of vectors in a vector space that is both linearly independent and spans the entire space.

Standard Basis Vector
For an nn-dimensional space, there are nn standard basis vectors.
Example in 3D: e1=(1,0,0)e1​=(1,0,0), e2=(0,1,0)e2​=(0,1,0), e3=(0,0,1)e3​=(0,0,1).


# Vector Norm (Magnitude or Length)
### _p_-norm

Let $p >= 1$ be a real number. The $p-norm$ (also called $l^p - norm$) of vector $x = (x_1, \ldots, x_n)$ is
$$ \|\mathbf{x}\|_{p} := \left( \sum_{i=1}^{n} |x_{i}|^{p} \right)^{\frac{1}{p}} $$



Used primarily to obtain the shortest distance in a two-dimensional plane
