---
{"dg-publish":true,"description":"Let's dive a little deeper into the vector properties of linear algebra.","permalink":"/projects/library/400/410/410-00/410-00-a/","dgPassFrontmatter":true,"noteIcon":"0","created":"2024-01-05T00:31:16.514+09:00","updated":"2024-06-20T02:47:26.502+09:00"}
---

#[[Projects/Library/400/400\|400]]#ML_Engineer_Basic#[[Projects/Library/400/410/410\|410]]#Mathematics#[[Projects/Library/400/410/410.00/410.00\|410.00]]#Linear_Algebra#[[Projects/Library/400/410/410.00/410.00 a\|410.00 a]]#Vectors_Properties


  
  

#Vector #Vector_Operation

  

# Linear Combination

Operations that combine the product and addition of scalars to get a new vector

  
  

# Linear Independence

Given vectors v1,v2,...,vnv1,v2,...,vn, they are linearly independent if the following equation holds true only when c1=c2=...=cn=0c1=c2=...=cn0:

c1v1+c2v2+...+cnvn=0c1v1+c2v+...+cvn=0

Here, c1,c2,...,cncc2,...,cn are scalar coefficients, and 00 represents the zero vector.

  

# Linearly Dependece

Given vectors v1,v2,...,vnv1,v...,v, they are linearly dependent if there exists a set of scalar coefficients c1,c2,...,cnc1,c2,...,cn, not all zero, such that:

c1v1+c2v2+...+cnvn=0c1v1+c2v2+...+cnvn0

> Linear dependence means at least one vector in the set can be expressed as a combination of the others.

  

# Representation of vector space

  

Subspace

1. **Closure**: The sum and scalar multiples of any vectors in the subspace must also belong to the subspace.

2. **Contains Zero Vector**: The subspace always includes the zero vector.

3. **Operations Follow Vector Space Rules**: All vectors in the subspace must adhere to the rules of vector addition and scalar multiplication.

  

# Vector Basis

It's a set of vectors in a vector space that is both linearly independent and spans the entire space.

  

Standard Basis Vector

For an nn-dimensional space, there are nn standard basis vectors.

Example in 3D: e1=(1,0,0)e1=(1,0,0), e2=(0,1,0)e2=(0,1,0), e3=(0,0,1)e3=(0,0,1).

  
  

# Vector Norm (Magnitude or Length)

### _p_-norm

  

Let $p >= 1$ be a real number. The$p-norm$ (also called$l^p - norm$) of vector $x = (x_1, \ldots, x_n)$is

$$ \|\mathbf{x}\|_{p} := \left( \sum_{i=1}^{n} |x_{i}|^{p} \right)^{\frac{1}{p}} $$

  
  
  

Used primarily to obtain the shortest distance in a two-dimensional plane