---
{"dg-publish":true,"description":"Describes git gists that can handle small snippets of code. They're also easy to share.","permalink":"/projects/library/000/020/020-10/020-10-c/","dgPassFrontmatter":true,"noteIcon":"0","created":"2024-02-23T13:26:25.315+09:00","updated":"2024-06-17T17:04:36.409+09:00"}
---

#[[Projects/Library/000/000\|000]]#IT_Knowledge#[[Projects/Library/000/020/020\|020]]#Operation_Knowledge#[[Projects/Library/000/020/020.10/020.10\|020.10]]#Git#[[Projects/Library/000/020/020.10/020.10 c\|020.10 c]]#git_consturcure



# Centralized management of code snippets through gist
#git_gist

## Audience
Who want to requires centralized management of code or images.
## Overview
In my case, the shared code changes for projects #1 to #5 articles, it must be manually updated for each, which is inconvenient. Therefore, a change to a centralized management system is necessary.
The main content addresses troubleshooting implemented through Markdown
## Content
Troubleshooting:

- Implementation is in the md (markdown) file.
    - First attempt: Created a gist and copied the link -> Failed because the usage was different. Looked up how others used it.
    - Second attempt: Used a script tag -> Failed because it didn't display at all. Tried different elements.
    - Third attempt: Used iframe -> Failed due to CORS and related server-side security policies.
    - Fourth attempt: Changed the extension to pibb in the existing format -> Success. This method seems to work with a specific extension, though detailed explanations are hard to find. Mentioned in a user-created GitHub cheatsheet.

Additionally, modifying the ?file=filename attribute can display only specific files from the gist.


## Conclusion
Using the Pibb extension, a gist can be implemented in a Markdown script and an iframe element.
`<iframe src="https://gist.github.com/murphybread/a0a351e489cde4b2064fcd3a7855d885.pibb?file=automation.py" width="100%" height="300"></iframe>`
